So this is, again, a variation on a theme
that we'll kinda take to its conclusion
where we've got four components.
These are all SVGs.
Good luck for anyone who tried.
[LAUGH] But
we can kinda take this base component.
I know that everyone was gonna
cheat at some point [LAUGH].
So we can have this base component.
And this is, again,
the one that we never plan on using.
So we'll call it .notification, or .base,
and we can put it in a notification frame
at some point, or in a base frame,
whatever you wanna do.
We can even call it .base/.notification.
And I'll probably go with that
button that I think I named in
the similar fashion,
assuming that I named it in that fashion.
Okey-dokies, so we've got that, and
now we're gonna turn it into an instance,
Or into a main component, and
we can drag in our four varietals,
variable one, two, three, and four.
And at this point,
it's an exercise in colorization, right?
And so I can theoretically at
this point switch this to,
let's call this one
the success notification.
We'll give the lighter color to that,
darker color, nope.
That was too easy.
It was too close.
There, you can choose
different shades if you want.
It's fine with me.
We will make the danger one.
Maybe we need a lighter version there.
Yeah, and
then we'll do the darker color as well.
This will be our info,
And the darker color here.
Information, where are you?
I like this one.
And we'll go ahead over here.
This is the warning, the light color.
And we'll give it that one.
All right, so now what I will probably
do is put these all in a frame now.
We'll call this notifications, and
each of these basically
can become a component.
Right, the other way to do it if you wanna
do it by hand that many times is you can
actually just select them all,
even if you can select them like that.
You can even arrange them.
And you can also go, hold on,
A lot of times, you can select.
It'll give you the option to
create multiple components, but
it's not giving it to me right now.
Or did I already do it, that's why.
Yeah, two of them are already base 1,
so let's grab the two that are not.
I'll show you.
And I can create multiple
components at the same time.
And as you can see,
these all need to be renamed.
We'll call it this one is warning.
There was one interesting
thing that we need to
talk about with using
the strategy of base components,
and you can kinda see it in the sidebar.
So take a look at that for a second,
and I will kinda explain in a second.
Danger, that's warning.
Which one was this?
That's success.
It's what happens when you talk and
type at the same time.
So one of the things that
you'll see is that these
are effectively framed around
the base version, right?
And so you will occasionally need
to do a little bit of tweaking.
I don't love this.
It's not my favorite part about Figma.
This one tends to work.
There will be times where
the sizing doesn't work,
cuz it's a component nested
inside of another component.
And so in those cases, you have to just
make sure that your constraints, and
you're filling out the area as you should.
I especially notice that when I was
working on the input fields, I would have
the base version, and then all the other
ones, they wouldn't stretch out.
But if I went in there kinda
into the components that I made,
just told them to fill the container.
I just had to manually tweak it.
I think it's one of things I suspect
will get fixed in a future version.
I don't think that it's intentional,
or there's a particular reason why.
But if you find that your kinda child
components don't stretch the way that they
should, just realize that they are.
I heard you like components, so
I put components in your components.
And just make sure that they're
filling out the container.
You might have to tweak it a little bit.
These seem to be totally fine, but
I've done this enough times, and
I'm not always completely sure about
when it happens in this case, cool.
I don't want that one size changed though,
so go back in there.
All right, so now, again, I have them all.
There they are.
And I can drag them in.
I can swap between them, as we've seen.
Like I said before, there are other
examples that you can play around with.
One of the questions is that can the base
component have variants as well?
Absolutely, and there's a lot of reasons
why you might choose to do that as well.
So you could theoretically have at
least the shadow and the darker color.
You're probably gonna still have to do
some work on each one of the little
instances beyond that.
But it will theoretically work as well.
And we'll see one case where that
might be helpful in a little bit.
Okay, in the same way that
I made the primary and
the secondary buttons,
once you've got the first one,
you can kind of make the different
states call on them,
and you can kinda build out this set.
It's just more of changing some colors,
as we've seen a bunch of times.